F-23A Electrical System Design Doc

Battery Master Switch (BMS) on the lower right instrument panel controls power from the battery to bare essential aircraft systems. 
It allows the illumination of cockpit lighting, a single MFD and power the APU ECU to allow for APU start. No other system can run off 
of the Battery Master switch, but the BMS must be on for the aircraft system to operate.

Turning the BMS “off” once engines or APU started should give a master caution light and should prevent further sequential actions 
in the electrical system from being completed. E.g. if APU is running and the BMS is selected to “off”, engines should not be able 
to start. The only degradation to the system if other sources of power are online if the BMS is selected to “off”, should be the 
master caution light. Ex. Engines running and BMS is selected “off”, only a master warning light should illuminate but Gen 1 & 2 
should continue to power the aircraft normally.

Once the BMS is selected to “on”, the APU can be started. The battery does not power the APU started as that is pneumatic and is 
a quick start APU (5 seconds to start.) Once the APU is running basic avionic systems can come online however we will keep the 
FC3 avionics off until an aircraft generator is turned “on”. Ex. the other MFDs will come online, and synoptic pages can be 
accessed once the APU is running.

The APU is used to start both engines both on the ground and in flight. Once a engine has started, the player can turn on 
the associated engine generator to connect that generator to the main aircraft bus. Each engine generator has enough power to 
power the entire aircraft and the FC3 avionics will automatically come online (FC3 power on). Once both engines are running the APU 
is no longer required and can be shut down. 

Normal operating is for both engine generators and BMS to be on. If an engine should fail in flight, the APU should automatically 
start to provide additional power. However, in this simulation it will have no discernible effect to the player other than the APU 
starting. If both engines fail the APU should provide enough power for the FC3 avionics to continue to work (in flight only).